In this lecture we will learn how we can customize the idea.
First let's learn how to change the color theme of the editor different programmers prefer different
color themes in their ID to change the color theme in Visual Studio code.
We can go to File preferences color film.
Here is a run through of the different color schemes available to us the light visual studio theme provide
just a white background with dark colors for the ladder's the light default theme is similar to the
first style but the coloring of the letters is lighter and more colorful.
The Quiet Light theme is a mainly purple theme that also uses some colorful lettering solo arised light
is a color theme that uses a light brownish background with lighter colors for the letters of best is
a color theme that relies heavily on blues and purples.
It has a dark blue background with lighter colored letters the dark visual studio theme gives us a gray
background with light colored letters the dark plus default dark color theme has a similar background
to the prior theme with lighter more colorful letters that Quimby dark color theme is a greenish brown
background with light colored letters the color theme has a gray background and the light neon colored
letters.
The moniker dimmed color theme as a bluish gray background with mid-tone letter colors red is a color
theme that has a vibrant red background with light warm colors for the letters.
The soul arrives dark colors theme as a blue background with light cool colors for letters the tomorrow
night blue theme has a bright blue background with light colors for the letters the high contrast color
theme has a black background with a very bright neon colors for the lettering.
We can also change keyboard shortcut settings.
Go to file preferences keyboard shortcuts.
If you double click on one of these lines you can enter a key combination that will be the key code
for that command.
You can also scroll through the list and see the default keyboard shortcuts.
Some important ones that will help you when coding or copy which is Control-C and paste which is control
P.
Also to toggle a line comment you can highlight a line of code and press control forward slash to commented
out.
If we go to a file preferences settings we can change things like if and when the program will autosave
the font and font size used in the editor.
And how many spaces are in a tab any changes we want to make.
We will put on the right hand side which will override the default values.
We can also specify the font size that we want the text in our editor to be displayed at.
We will copy the editor font size line from the left hand side of the editor and then paste it into
the right hand side of the editor.
We can then change the font size number from 14 to anything that we deem appropriate.
I want to make sure that the code I type is clearly visible to all users of this tutorial even those
using mobile devices.
So I will specify a font of 18.
Let's configure the autosave function to automatically save our code.
We will copy and paste the files auto save line from the left to the right hand side of the editor and
change the value of it from off to after delay.
Be sure to put a comment and then paste the line that we just copied there.
Remember you can use those Control C and control keyboard shortcuts mentioned earlier.
Then we will change the auto save value from off to after delay.
Finally we are going need to specify the amount of time for the delay that passes before each order
of save we will add a comma after the file autosave value we added and then add an opening quote to
and begin to type files.
Autosaves delay as we are typing this the options should appear in the Intellisense and we will select
it.
You will notice that the default value of 1000 is given.
Which stands for 1000 milliseconds or 1 second.
Then we can hit control as to save these changes to apply the user settings.
If the auto save feature was configured properly we should see autosave checked when we click on our
file menu.
We also have the ability to customize the display of the cursor within the editor.
If we scroll down a bit in the user settings you will notice the line of code that specifies the editor
cursor style.
We have six options when it comes to how our cursor is displayed.
We can specify an editor cursor a block block outline line line then underline and underline.
Then let's copy and paste the line of code specifying the editor cursor style from the left hand side
of the editor to the right hand side.
We will grab everything except for the comma at the end of the line.
Hit Control C and then paste the line underneath the other lines that we added on the right hand side.
Don't forget to add a comma after the autosaves line the line of code just above the line we just pasted
in by default.
The editor cursor style is set to line.
Let's change it to block and see the result as you will notice the cursor is now a blinking white block
with the width of one character.
Let's see the result of changing the editor cursor style to a value of block outline and see the result
in our editor.
In the editor you will see that now a rectangular outline with the width of one character is shown and
blinking changing this value to line thin will produce a cursor back to the line style that it was by
default.
With the exception that the width is about half as if we want to set our cursor back to the exact default
we could change this value to line giving our cursor an editor cursor style of.
Underline.
We'll turn our cursor into an underline with the width of one character the underline thin editor cursor
style is similar but changes are cursor to an underline with about half the thickness.
Changing the editor cursor style is purely a matter of personal preference.
I will change the style back to line as that is the style I prefer But feel free to change to style
to whatever you like or are accustomed to using one program and next I'm going to make some changes
that will control how the editor behaves when we type in code.
Note that none of these changes are mandatory and you can leave in the defaults if you want but if you
want your editor behave exactly as mine does when following along with these videos then I suggest you
make the same edits.
If we scroll down to the default settings we can see the language specific settings that visual studio
code gives us access to.
Let's go to the H TMLC section and click on the arrow on the left hand side to see our options for the
settings.
We will change indent inner HVM to true which will automatically indent the head and body sections of
r h t m l code in the next lecture.
We will learn the process to run cold in the web browser.